Good morning, I'm Michelle Jen and here
at home call you're watching [music] the
China show I mean Bob Mann with April
Hong.
>> And we're counting down to the open of
markets in greater [music] China. Our
top stories, Asian equities bounce back
after the so-called chip wreck that sank
tech stocks. Chinese markets in focus
with mainland [music] shares in Hong
Kong now in bear market territory.
Alibaba suing the Pentagon [music] over
its blacklist of companies allegedly
supporting the Chinese military. The
e-commerce giant says the US does not
have any [music] evidence. Also on the
program, Indonesia vows to continue
reforms after getting more time from
MSCI to avoid a downgrade [music] to
frontier market status.
>> And I'm Stephen Engle at the World
Economic Forum so-called Summer Davos
here in Dalian, China where Chinese
Premier Li [music] Qiang speaks in the
next hour. You can see the line behind
me, but first we'll speak exclusively
with the world's largest battery maker
CATL after launch of a new [music]
technology to meet growing energy
storage demand from AI data centers.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Well, a lot could happen here in the
next hour or so before of course the
Premier Li Qiang speaks at the Summer
Davos [music] in Dalian. April,
certainly we're continuing to watch
where this market route is at the
moment. Korea's bouncing back just
slightly, but we're talking about still
at 10% drop uh yesterday on the Kospi.
So still uh as it seems like it's still
very cautious recovery across the board.
>> Yeah, that 10% drop was the worst since
the early days of March this year. And
to that caution I suppose among the
things that investors will be watching
will be the Micron earnings and the
scrutiny as well that we've been seeing
on the role that leverage ETFs have been
playing amplifying swings in either
direction for the South Korean market.
Let's take a look at how things are
shaping up so far this Wednesday. We are
seeing of course as you said that
relatively cautious recovery that has
gained about 3% you're looking at the
Kospi there versus the 10% plunge just a
day ago and this is also in a way I
guess helping to drag up the Nasdaq
futures. Remember how the selling in
chip stocks started in Korea, Asia,
spread to Europe, then the US. Take a
look as well at what we're seeing in
some of these specific chip names
because Samsung is the star performer
today on the back of local media reports
that 90 trillion won share buyback plan.
This will enable it to you know deal out
these bonuses to workers, but we are
also watching the idea that the leverage
ETFs are really allowing catalyst to
play out either good or bad way and that
is really magnifying the moves in the
market cuz remember when it came to SK
Hynix just a day ago there was also
local media reporting about the role
high bandwidth memory and how that
development of capacity might be a bit
more tentative. Take a look as well and
let's recap what we're seeing in Micron
in terms of this stock and how it has
rallied triple digits so far this year.
But overnight we did see it closing
about 13% down and you know Marvell
among the chip stocks that were also
hard hit. That being said these are
stocks that have more than doubled so
far this year and on the Philly
Semiconductor Index we're seeing that
decline that was the worst in about
three weeks. That is the setup coming
into the open for the greater China
region today and of course we're
watching tech given its role in dragging
already the Hang Seng tech that has been
well in their market and joined now by
MSCI China as well as Hang Seng China
enterprises. Watching dollar China as
well, it's holding quite neatly below
the 6.8 handle. That's despite the
bounce that we've been seeing in the
dollar amid more conviction in US
growth, Yvonne.
>> All right. Uh, let's get to our top
story here this morning. Chinese Premier
Li Qiang is set to address the World
Economic Forum in Dalian with investors
watching for any measures to boost
sluggish consumer spending. Let's get to
our chief North Asia correspondent,
Stephen Engle. He joins us now from the
so-called Summer Davos. And Steve, what
are we likely to hear from the premier
today?
>> Well, I expect it to be a message
largely to the foreign business
community and also government leaders
that are here in Dalian. You can see the
lineup behind me is already moving into
the grand hall where Li Qiang will be
speaking at the top of the next hour.
And I've covered a lot of these since
the first World Economic Forum Summer
Davos was held here in Dalian in 2007.
And usually the premier does give the
keynote speech on day two, which we are
in now. And it's usually a message that
China is continuing to open up. And at
the same breath, he will say likely that
they reject protectionism and the
so-called uh law of the jungle, which
they've repeated quite often in trade
policies from unnamed uh trade partners
like the United States. So, that I
expect to be a key message. But at the
same time, I think he's going to be
talking about what you alluded to there,
Yvonne. And that is the increasingly
urgent need to rebalance the economy.
The May economic indicators uh showed
the worst rise in consumer spending uh
since the pandemic days. Investment is
also slumping. So, it's definitely a
sluggish, sort of a one-speed economy
with exports really uh being leaned on
uh to power you know any kind of
semblance of growth here in the Chinese
economy. So, we heard from Huang Yiping
yesterday. He's the Peking University
Professor, the advisor to the PBOC.
We're going to be speaking to him later
this morning with Min Min Lo, of course,
here on Bloomberg Television. But
yesterday, he did sort of add a lot of
urgency for the need for some sort of
measures and policy moves to boost
domestic sentiment, domestic
consumption. He said, and I will quote
it directly, "If the economy is
unbalanced, the increasing pressure may
affect the sustainability of our
economic growth in the future." So
again, he says it is crucial to get some
sort of to head off the risks of to
growth that is being caused by the lack
of domestic consumption. So that I
expect to be a large part of what could
be upwards of an hour-long speech from
Li Qiang. But again, Chinese leaders
have been more economic in their
speeches of late,
shorter than the old hour, hour and a
half-long speeches.
>> We'll see how long that speech plays out
for, but Steve, what else have we been
hearing from WEF so far?
>> Well, obviously AI is at the top of so
many people's minds and how it's going
to eventually lead to
better productivity across the supply
chain in China. When will the large
language models and the big AI players
be able to monetize and become
profitable or are they going to be into
long-term expansion plans into R&D and
reinvestment and maybe push down the
road the the specter of profitability.
We're going to be talking about that. In
fact, you know,
I'm moderating two panels here. The
first one yesterday was all on AI. Today
is it's all on AI and indigenous
innovation. So you can see that that is
really a driving force of new productive
forces in the Chinese economy across the
spectrum. Also, there are some
geopolitical and bilateral meetings that
do happen on the sidelines of the World
Economic Forum. Premier Li did meet with
his South Korean counterpart Kim
Min-seok here in Dalian yesterday
calling for China and South Korea to
expand cooperation in semiconductors,
AI, new energy, and biomedicine. Li
Qiang also met with the Prime Minister
>> [clears throat]
>> of Kazakhstan to kind of reinforce
regional cooperation. You're seeing the
rest of the interview lineup, it's
fantastic today. This is a great lineup.
CATL's Chief Manufacturing Officer will
speak to us coming up shortly
exclusively. We're going to find out
more about their new sodium batteries,
their kind of dual track technology
where they're not only going to be
continuing to do lithium-ion batteries,
but also sodium batteries, which is a
very interesting development for the
power storage space. A
increasing need for power storage with
AI data centers around the world. And
you saw the rest of the lineup. Great
day on Bloomberg Television. Don't don't
change your channel.
>> Yeah, stick keep it here as Steve says.
All right, we'll have more coming up
with Steve coming up our chief Asia
correspondent Yvonne Man in Dalian. Man
Man Lo is going to be joining us as well
throughout the next few hours or so. But
yes, as as Steve mentioned, right?
There's a lot of AI, but certainly when
it comes what we're seeing in offshore
Chinese markets, this is a market where
it's a very software driven and in some
ways has been underperforming, right? We
we reached that milestone finally
yesterday of ending the day into bear
market territory for HSCEI and MSCI
China. Really joining the ranks of
really HS Tech which has been a bear
market for some time now. Let's bring in
Kevin Lau, Managing Director and Chief
Offshore China and Overseas Strategist
at CICC Research. Kevin, it's always
great to have you on the program.
Why do you think offshore stocks have
have underperformed so much? What do you
think is driving that?
>> Well, here's the scene. It's K-shaped
polarization everywhere. It's a global
phenomenon. Uh but it's not doing this
for no reason. Uh for example, A shares,
it's so much exposure to consumption,
just like Asia consumption. It already
test the low back to September 2024 when
the bull run started. So, here is the
fundamental driven actually the credit
from the household, which is the
willingness household willing to borrow,
already tip us much earlier of the
weakness.
From last year, we actually remind
investors relatively conservative rather
than rotate to consumption but still
hold to technology because here we still
see credit expansion. And that's why we
are relatively conservative on the
overall broader markets. Uh so, that's
why A shares lagged behind due to the
consumption, due to the lower lack of
the K-shape.
>> Yeah.
>> That's reflect the
>> Tell me about a little bit more the
credit to households.
You think it's a leading indicator. What
happened last time when we started to
see things drop?
>> Well, last time September 2024 when
people are not willing to borrow, when
people are prepared their mortgage, it's
called credit contraction or balance
sheet recession. And then the policy
step in to pivot to consumption to
provide more stimulus to consumption and
actually pre-in policy, all those stuff
just started to boost the demand. But
after you know, a year or so, starting
from this year, when the growth started
to stabilize, especially the export are
quite strong.
>> Yeah.
>> The policy realized that given such
moderate growth, which is about 4.5,
it's enough to reach the target for
2035. And then they should address more
on technology, the choke point of the
technology, which is a strategic
goal of in the longer term.
>> Kevin, so where do we go from here on A
shares, Uh especially Hang Seng tech? Do
they look attractive enough
uh yet, at least on the fundamentals
basis?
>> Well, here's the thing, the dilemma is,
you know, they're low in valuation, I
agree, but low valuation sometimes could
mean value trap. And the last thing you
don't want to have is the opportunity
cost. So, we may still see too much
downside risk from this level of
valuation. I call it a
high payoff ratio, but relatively low
win ratio. So, it's not probably
suitable for investors have a
really high requirements to the
benchmark or really tight funding cost.
At this level, for those long-term
investors, it's not a bad deal, but in
order for the Hang Seng tech all the
general consumption to catch up the
rally, notably, it's better to first
have the US yield to come down, and
then, more importantly, to have the
policy to pivot to consumption. You
know, there are some arguments saying
that it's better to have technology to
pull back so that we can rotate to the
traditional part. I think that kind of
thinking is probably misplaced. Because
the traditional part is weak, it's not
just because it's weak valuation, it's
because it's weak fundamentals. And the
correction of the technology won't
automatically translate into the
improvement of the fundamentals. We
better hope the technology holds up,
otherwise the wealth, in fact, the 70%
of the contribution to the earnings will
all be gone. It's going to be
bad for the overall economy and overall
market. And besides, I don't think it's
a full-blown bubble yet. We have a full
metrics of indicators to track that.
>> What do we do in the meantime then with
money? What are you advocating? Maybe a
bit more focus on the cyclicals, the
export-focused part of the market?
>> Well, the first principle when we think
about allocation is always follow the
demand, which is a credit cycle.
Whenever they have the demand, they have
a promising industrial development,
they're going to borrow more money,
they're going to be show reflected by
the credit expansion. So, technology is
still the key trend, but the dilemma is
technology is good, but it's clearly
crowded. But, the less crowded part is
not really attractive in terms of
fundamental. So, giving the crowdedness,
a common mis- conception is that it
going to invite volatility, but not
necessarily. It won't change the return
pattern. It only amplify the reaction to
so-called tail risk. So, for example,
the rumor for new taxes, if you hold the
technology share in Korea, or the sudden
liquidity shock, what you're going to
do? For this, you hold that, but
meanwhile,
relatively be selective for those core
quality growth. Maybe cut some exposure
to be narrowing your exposure to the
technology to avoid potential
volatility. But, that's the key trend.
But, for the rest part, if you have
assets with very high pair of ratio, but
low win ratio, for example, Hang Seng
technology, use part of the shares to
batch. It's like long dated option
value. But, in the next half, if we're
going to see some normalization of
so-called K-shape divide, which I
believe US have probably better chance
as long as the US yield come down, we
probably can batch export alpha of
cyclical.
>> Okay, so wait for US yields to go down a
bit. What about you mentioned it's still
hard to argue that AI is in a bubble,
and you're looking at some key
indicators. What what are those
indicators now for you?
>> Well, you know, it always come to me, I
wonder whether whether we call it a
bubble, or it is only place to have the
earnings growth nowadays. So, the bubble
is defined not by investment, it's by
access.
So, how do we look at these four
metrics? The first one is penetration.
Penetration is really important. People
look at smartphone or new energy
vehicle, they always say 2025
penetration is going to be, you know,
the end of the first period of the
growth. But this time could be different
because it's not a general consumer
goods. So, the denominator should not be
just the population. The penetration is
very important. Second is recurring
earning and uh free cash flow. That is
something people are worried about
because they're running out of the
operating cash flow. They're going to
borrow money. Uh people using the token
price as a proxy. The third is always to
look at where the money comes from.
>> Yeah.
>> The cheap money. The first stage is
funded by the hyper scalar.
>> Yeah.
>> And the second stage is funded by the
whole society.
All those large language model in the US
IPO is getting money from the whole
society. Chinese government funding the
all the money using
government bond. It's funded by savings.
>> Yes.
>> And the
last stage is all those cheap money buy
those very quick easy IPO just like the
internet bubble.
When all those e-commerce, which is, you
know, mirror of air application, they
easily have the business plan to get IPO
money to pop into the system. It is the
time when we feel the bubble. We're not
there yet.
>> Not there yet. Um
talk to me about opportunities. You
mentioned even offshore. You know, if we
see any catalysts on the horizon here, I
mean, everyone's thinking was the May
data weak enough
>> Mhm.
>> to spark some sort of stimulus or action
from from from policy makers. What's
your take on that? What's really the
next catalyst?
>> Well, we definitely, you know, I would
definitely mark my calendar for three
things. First is the earning season. The
second is the uh July Politburo meeting
and the July FOMC. For the July
Politburo meeting, whether is this data
is weak enough. If you compare September
2024 exports is better. It's much
better. And employment is not that weak.
I'm not saying it's good, but still the
retail sales negative growth is very
rare in history. So, I will say I will
keep eye on what policy going to offer
incrementally on the consumption if they
do.
>> Okay.
>> It's going to be a signal.
>> Politburo meeting in July, that's the
one to watch. Kevin, it's great to have
you. Managing Director and Chief
Offshore China and Overseas at CICC
Research. Good to have you there. And
we're counting down the open of trade in
Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Hong Kong. This
is The China Show.
>> [music]
>> We're going to be watching Alibaba
shares later on this morning. The
company has sued the US Department of
Defense seeking to be removed from a
blacklist that identifies the company as
a supporter of the Chinese military. Our
tech reporter Liz Deng is with us here
right now. So, what's the argument from
Alibaba's side?
>> Yes, so
first off, Alibaba argues that the
listing violates their constitutional
due process because they think that the
listing was without
substantial evidence and explanation.
And second, that they think that the
listing violates their rights to free
speech with the first amendment of US
Constitution because uh
it prevents them from retaining certain
lobbyists and advocates that they have
been working for years to advocate for
them especially at this time that
they're challenging the listing.
>> Mhm.
What about other companies on this list?
Any others? And what does this being on
this list actually mean for the
companies?
>> Yes, so there are a couple other big
names of Chinese in the Chinese tech
world that are on on the list on this
list. Tencent is one. They were listed
last year and together with Alibaba, who
were listed earlier this year,
was
Baidu,
the robot champion Unitree, and also the
biggest EV
manufacturer BYD, and also some chip
manufacturers including Changxin. And
then this list, in general, it does it
does not lead to very
it leads to very few legal
repercussions, but then it mostly serves
as a uh shame and shame list, and then
also as a warning for investors
for for further being on the list.
>> What what does What do we learn from the
past from from these sort of challenges?
Do you think that there's there was any
success from any Chinese company in
challenging the these sort of listings?
>> Yes, actually, Xiaomi, the smartphone
and EV maker, successfully managed to
get itself off the list in 2021 after
suing the Pentagon like Alibaba did. And
also there was another chip maker,
Advanced Micro-Fabrication Equipment,
they also was
were able to get themselves taken out of
the list in 2024.
>> Luce, great to have you. Thanks for
talking us through the latest Bloomberg
tech reporter Luce Day.
>> Now coming up, we speak with [music] the
chief manufacturing officer at CATL as
the battery giant ramps up capacity
[music]
to meet growing data center demand. That
exclusive conversation coming up.
>> Yeah, we're checking RMB here this
morning, the PBOC weakening that fix for
a fourth day here. [music] This is the
longest streak we've seen since April of
2025. So it came in at 68195.
Seems like a little bit less tolerant
here when it comes to some of the
strength that we see in the currency
[music] of late. We're now back to 679
levels for offshore China. We'll have
plenty more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
>> Take a look at how we're faring in the
Hong Kong pre-market. Looks like it
could be a day where we see a bit of
positivity return to the markets. To be
clear though, actually Hang Seng didn't
fare that badly just a day ago despite
the onslaught we were seeing among
memory among the AI trade particularly
in Korea, which was interesting because
maybe part of that was the rotation that
we're seeing away from memory and AI
trades and maybe that benefited a Hang
Seng to some extent. We even see some
slight gains among the internet-related
stocks. So, we'll watch to see how that
plays out in the session today. But of
course, it's also about the indices, the
MSCI China and the Hang Seng China
enterprises in bare market by the close.
>> Yeah, we're watching on these chip
stocks in China which are actually
faring better as April mentioned here
except for SMIC we're slightly lower.
But this you know, against what we saw
overnight, right? When you had the likes
of Micron, Sandisk and and you know,
Cerebra stock really tanking on some of
the concerns around the Korea sell-off.
We're seeing it relatively doing a
little bit better in terms of the
domestic names in China here today. And
it's a bit more upside when it comes to
ASML tech here. We're watching also
Alibaba as we talked about here. They
are now suing when it comes to being put
on that US Pentagon blacklist as well.
We did see Alibaba shares fall 2%
overnight. We're not quite seeing that
here in the Hong Kong session where
we're slightly higher here. And we're
watching Cathay Pacific in particular.
Just what we've been seeing so far
[music] in terms of news there. They're
cutting their fuel surcharges for
flights from July 1st onwards. Could be
good for of course all those Cathay
flyers out there. We got the open coming
up next. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
show. We're counting down to the open of
markets and Ivana, [music] it's really
about health of the AI trade and you
know, that is the focus. You look at the
rest of the region, you're seeing some
of the South Korean [music] names which
dragged the index there down. They're
popping today, but you wonder is this
some
>> [music]
>> idiosyncratic moves that you're seeing
given the share buyback plan we saw for
Samsung. The local media reports are
[music] indicating because you look at
Taiwan, you have a bit of consternation
there as [music] well when it comes to
the tech trades.
>> Yeah, you got to wonder is the worst
over when it comes to of course this
tech and chip sell-off here. It
certainly was a pretty ugly session the
US overnight when it came to stocks.
Index was down some eight after Kospi
fell some 10. So certainly
>> [music]
>> at least we're seeing that recovery in
in in Seoul here this morning. That's
helping to lift a little bit more of the
sentiment here. But yes, we are nursing
some wounds here this morning especially
when we talk about what's been going on
the leverage ETF market as well in Korea
which seems to be continued to really
hurt retail investors, right? So
certainly that's one thing to watch.
Onshore equities
seems to be doing actually feeling some
pressure here. So Shanghai is down about
4/10 of 1% we're flat when it comes to
Shenzhen here this morning. But we're
not seeing that much conviction in some
of the even that the darling trades like
the tech chip space like Capricorn CATL
is also not doing too well right now
onshore. But Zhongjiu Inno Lite, this is
one of the ones that is one of those
darlings is doing up well we're up about
1% there today.
So there's not a whole lot to really
sink your teeth into. Shanghai crude
though is still cooling some 3% or so.
So that's one thing, but there you go.
Shenzhen and ChiNext now has turned
slightly to the positive side of things
here. So we're still tilted towards of
course that sort of AI sort of trade in
China. But, as Kevin Liu from CICC says,
right? It's still quite a narrow rally.
When you talk about the breadth, even
strong markets like the A-share market,
less than 30% of stocks are
outperforming, right? With the median
real return really sitting at -11%
according to him. The thing when it
comes to Hong Kong, cuz certainly that's
the one thing to watch. First and
foremost, we'll talk a little bit more
spirits first because Goldman had a
pretty interesting report when it came
to some of these liquor makers as well,
right? They've been also talking about
when it comes to the consumption side of
things, they're upgrading some of these
names here on stabilization signs. So,
Gujing and King's Lock are the ones that
they have chosen for their pick here.
Not much movement on on some of those
stocks here, but Kweichow Moutai also
unchanged at the moment. Hong Kong,
here's what your stock board looks like
right now. Of course, as we hit that
milestone, right? With HSCEI entering
into a bear market, also MSCI China, you
actually are seeing some more upside. HS
Tech seems to be recovering here.
Perhaps, as we say, maybe there is a bit
more rotation out of the Korea names and
wobbles there into maybe HS Tech, which
has been underperforming for some time
now. So, you are seeing some decent
gains when it comes to Baidu, we're up
2.5% Xiaomi's up close to two, but
Tencent and Meituan are still in the red
this morning. Interesting to watch the
onshore RMB, it's still holding onto
some strength, but PBOC has weakened
that fix for a fourth time. It's the
longest streak we've seen since 2024.
So, that's certainly one thing. April
2025 I I I think. That's one thing we
need to watch out for very closely. So,
right now, when it comes to of course
movers, we're still very much focused on
the chip space here, and we are actually
still seeing some of these domestic
chipmakers doing quite well with SMIC,
Hua Hong both up. April, you got some
breaking news.
>> Yep, out of Australia data. Now, when it
comes to CPI on the headline print, we
are seeing it trending in the correct
direction, right? Because that cooling
was more than expected. So, on month
you're seeing it cooling 0.7%
but if you look at what the more closely
watched gauge is doing, which is trim
mean, gives you an idea of core
inflation, underlying price pressures
within the economy, that one actually
picked up on the on month figure by
0.4%.
So, that's going to keep perhaps the RBA
on watch. Maybe tell a bit more hawkish.
And you're seeing that reaction a bit in
the spike in Aussie versus the green
bag, Yvonne.
>> Yep. All right, that's one thing to
watch very closely here, inflation
across the world really. We're heading
back to the World Economic Forum meeting
in China in Dalian right now. Let's
bring in our chief Asia correspondent,
Steve Engle. He is there with our next
guest. Steve.
>> Yes, it's an exclusive guest. We're very
honored to have Ni Jun, CATL chief
manufacturing officer at the world's
largest battery maker. Thanks so much
for talking to Bloomberg exclusively
again. Last time, a year ago, we also
talked at the World Economic Forum in
Tianjin. We did talk about what your
chairman had also talked about then was
sodium batteries
for EVs. Now, we heard Mr. Zeng talk
yesterday about basically your storage
system, sodium batteries are ready for
production. Tell me how that helps and
how ready it is for production and for
commercialization.
>> Yes, we have been investing in sodium
battery for quite a few years.
Internally, we have already gone through
several iterations
for different application scenarios. We
have the best design for each
application scenario. For example, last
year
when Dr. Zeng mentioned about the EV,
and this This we'll roll out in in
volume production for EV application.
For that application, we care about the
low temperature, right? In particular
for northern uh markets, and people want
worry about in the cold or minus 20,
minus 30, can you
restart? Can you drive the
designer range? So, we come up with a
novel design which can perform at that
kind of extreme condition. And this year
we uh Dr. Jin mentioned that we'll have
this large energy storage solution.
>> Right.
>> Again, we design for the long cycle
life. And we're talking about the 20 25
years life cycle. And also the the cost
effectiveness. Because sodium as an
alternative to lithium, and so we we we
take a different approaches.
>> So, what kind of cost differential are
we talking about for this dual track
strategy, if you will? You're still
going to be doing lithium-ion,
>> Right.
>> uh but it obviously has more energy
intensity and uh heat sensitivity or
temperature swings. Uh whereas you have
a more cost-effective sodium battery.
Does it have as much energy intensity?
>> Well, the in terms of energy density,
sodium-ion batteries not there yet. Like
uh it's
uh probably I'll say for certain
application, that's a good enough.
That's ideal for that working
temperature we talked about and also the
thermal sensitivity.
>> Yeah.
>> So, sodium battery for storage, for
example, and we don't care about the
energy density that much, but the
performing in a wider temperature range
and uh longer uh cycle life are the
design criteria. So, we design for that
application.
>> What makes it ideal for data centers,
which are exploding? Obviously, China is
earmarking lots of money for nationwide
network of data centers given the AI
boom.
>> Well, given the AI uh data center,
required very different
power uh supply. And because in
millisecond, you you need surge the
power requirement three, five times when
people care about the particular AI
algorithm, and that demand is very
sharply
demand. So, current grid is not that
ideal for supply to AIDC. So, CATL is
designing
AIDC has a combined performance of uh uh
super capacitor plus lithium ion
battery. So, it give you both
instant demand
uh surge, and but also have a longer
duration and a large energy density.
>> You're the chief manufacturing officer,
so how ready are you to scale up, and
what kind of demand do you expect?
>> this year, we going to put that more
than
1 gigawatt
gigawatt hours of energy storage system
in place. Because when we start this
volume production, we need to ramp up
our supply. Currently, our bottleneck is
in the supplier. And do they have enough
capacity to produce the kind of raw
material for us? And uh for the vehicle,
we we this year we're going to see maybe
10 to 20,000 vehicles carry CATL sodium
battery in the market.
>> The The other thing Robin Zeng was
talking about, the chairman, Dr. Zeng,
uh yesterday here at the World Economic
Forum, which got a lot of buzz going,
and that is It's something Elon Musk has
talked about as well. It's about
harnessing the compute power and the
energy power in idle EVs. There are a
lot of them. I think there are what, 40
million EVs in China? Many of them
overnight sitting idle. So, you can
create token factories. Is this a a
moonshot idea, or is this really
possible to kind of harness the
collective compute and power energy
power in these idle EVs uh to be able to
fuel agentic AI?
>> This is a more close to the reality,
not compared to the
uh data center in the space. This is a
real on the earth. It's available right
now. Uh,
each of the,
new generation intelligence smart EVs,
they have so much computational power to
navigate the surrounding to do conduct
autonomous driving.
When you do not driving the vehicle,
when you go to work, you out of 24
hours, you only use a vehicle for 1 or 2
hours.
>> Right.
>> And when you park in the work, and you
have a
>> energy supply?
>> Usually have a more than 100 kilowatt
hours in the vehicle, plus the
competition power. If we can create a
platform,
we have a solve the both of competition
power and energy supply problem.
>> Well, that's the challenge, right? You
need to build the infrastructure to do
this because there is vehicle to grid
technology where that's the power
transmission, that's right. The energy
generation. But, how do you get the data
and that to
those systems? You need a platform to do
that.
>> Exactly. We need to create a new
platform because the data link, up link,
down link, it's already exist because
many of the vehicle has the capability
to do the OTA, over the air,
as the upgrading for the software.
>> Yeah.
>> But, we need to upgrade. If you want to
use that as a
AI distributed AIDC, we need to upgrade
the bandwidth. But, now 5G, 6G is coming
and this is the I think a technically
it's quite a feasible.
>> How long will it take do you think of
for they build the platform?
>> This depend on drive AIDC. When the
token cost becomes so expensive,
people look for solutions. We have 14
million vehicles EVs in the market. If
you think about the multiply by that the
power, the energy power and competition
power, that's a huge resource.
We will tap into that.
>> Last year you and I talked in Tianjin
about the number one priority being
international expansion for CATL. We
know you're producing in Germany. You
have a gigafactory coming online almost
momentarily in Hungary.
When is that going to start putting out
put the batteries?
>> Well, we have we are already ready. In
terms production, we are already ready.
But we we are waiting for the final
approval for the government to give good
green light.
>> Well, they have a new government in
place. Victor Orban is out.
>> Yeah, we are waiting for the transition
to settle down. I think we're very close
to have the production launch anytime
soon as we speak.
>> any stumbling blocks or hurdles with the
new government?
>> We are very cooperative. We work with
the new government and we everything is
set up for the final green light.
>> Ni Jun, thanks so much for your time.
Sounds like CATL is becoming more of an
AI company. You invested in Deep Seek.
You're now doing token factories in the
cars. Let's have another conversation
about that.
>> Okay, good.
>> Ni Jun, CATL's chief manufacturing
officer speaking to us exclusively here
on Bloomberg at the Summer Davos in
Dalian. Back to you.
>> Amazing stuff, Steve. Thank you so much.
Bloomberg's chief North Asia
correspondent. Of course, coming up as
well, we'll talk MSCI as the index
compiler [music] delays its decision on
Indonesia's possible downgrade to
frontier market status. We'll discuss
the outlook with SGMC Capital [music]
next.
>> Yeah, and we're getting live pictures
out of Tokyo where SoftBank is holding
its AGM. And yeah, we're sticking back
to the theme of AI. There, Masayoshi is
on speaking, [music] of course, to the
crowd and saying the main long-term
focus will be on robots with [music] AI.
Earlier, he also did talk about, you
know, if there is any sort of succession
plans. Well, the 68-year-old Son says he
[music] will continue to lead the
company in his 70s as well. We have
plenty more coming up. This is
Bloomberg.
>> in terms of the chip.
>> What we're seeing now in in Indonesia is
is a post bubble burst era.
A lot of those those stocks those you
know consumer discretionary
online type stocks have have kind of you
know gone a little bit by the wayside.
They're say they're maybe still 80% down
from the listing price or something like
that. So you know the
the index has kind of been handed back
to the kind of traditional stewards as
it were which is the you know the
the Indonesian banks.
>> ABN AMRO Group co-founder and managing
partner Paul Gambles there when it comes
to Indonesia and this really after we
heard from MSCI has once again postponed
its review of Indonesian equity saying
that it needs more time to see if
recently announced transparency reforms
are effective. The index compiler says
its recent moves including enhanced
disclosures were a step in the right
direction but that consistent
implementation is needed. MSCI has
delayed its review until November now
and it also kept South Korea in its EM
index and refrained from starting a
formal review process that could
eventually change it to DM status. And
the provider says that that is because
of underlying accessibility issues that
have not been fully resolved. MSCI
meanwhile also made no changes when it
came to Vietnam status as well April.
>> Yeah, a lot to unpack. Let's bring in
Mohit Manyapuri. He is senior partner at
SG HC Capital. He manages two funds for
the firm that have exposure to
Indonesia. Mohit, great to see you. So
we were just talking through some of the
MSCI's continued concerns. What are you
expecting to see or do you want to see
anything specifically in this five-month
period until we hear a bit more from the
MSCI on Indonesia?
>> has avoided the immediate downgrade
risk, but the announcement came with a
clear warning label. Um in fairness, as
you pointed out, the accessibility
scores last week do not paint the
picture of a frontier of a market that
belongs in the frontier market. The vast
majority of Indonesia's framework
remains intact. The deterioration was
concentrated around information flow and
shareholder transparency concerns, which
um as MSCI has acknowledged, uh the
reforms by OJK, IDX, and KSEI, the focus
is now on implementation consist
consistency, and sustained
effectiveness. So, MSCI reviews markets
in practice, not on paper. So, I guess
it would be too soon given the reforms
that just occurred in March and April.
So, now it's about clear implementation
and ensuring that all of this is put in
practice.
>> So, Mohit, do you think a downgrade
it is how real are those concerns now?
Uh if it does, you know, is it a is it
more of a tail risk right now? And and
what what's going to happen to sentiment
here in the next few months until
November?
>> Yes, so November is now the
November is now the next key date.
Investors will still have to deal with
the volatility that this tail risk
brings. But in fairness, this is not
January 2026 when markets were at
all-time highs. We are now at levels
that already reflect a lot of this risk.
Uh JCI is down 32% in dollar terms as of
yesterday, uh even after rebounding
about 17% from the 8th June low. So, the
market is trading around nine times
forward earnings.
Um valuations are appealing, positioning
is light, and expectations are low. So,
these are typically good ingredients for
an investor to work with. So, our
message is simple. Don't stay selective,
but don't be paralyzed by the headlines.
>> Mohit, Indonesia has made some
improvements, right? Which is I think
indicative of the the way this review
uh outcome has been pushed back in a
way. What is your sense of
what we might get from the new stock
exchange chief and the further reforms
that maybe we might see on the margins
in this period?
>> Sure, the Well, the proof is in the in
the pudding now, so to speak. So,
Indonesia and the new uh chiefs need to
show MSCI and international investors
that the reforms are not just
announcements, but are working in
practice. So, that means again better
transparency around shareholding
structures, more reliability, free more
free float visibility, uh stronger
disclosure standards. I think MSCI also
mentioned they wanted a lot of things in
English. Um so, all these rules just
need to be applied consistently.
Um and the other point is policy
credibility. So, Indonesia cannot just
rely obviously on these cheap valuations
to bring investors back. Uh it needs to
rebuild confidence through fiscal
discipline
uh and through through consistency in
the communication from regulator from
regulators.
So, if Indonesia can show progress by
November, the conversation can shift
from downgrade risk to recovery.
>> Okay. So, beyond just this overhang when
it comes to this MSCI decision, Mohit
Mohit, we're still seeing this market
deal with, you know, BI, which is on a
some sort of tightening path. We've also
seen uh when it comes to oil, right?
They're still dealing with the shocks of
oil.
And some would argue that, you know, for
now Indonesia really remains an
unattractive place. What is the case to
stay in Indonesia? And how how selective
are you now?
>> Yeah, I would not I would not say buy
everything. I would say this is still a
selective recovery market. You want
quality balance sheets, strong cash
flows, you know, credible governance. A
lot of stocks have are export-oriented
dollar earners and they have free cash
flow generation above 20% and a lot of
them actually trade at price to
earnings, you know, under six under
seven eight times, low single digits and
even under
one time price to book. I
you know, there's a famous market line
as well, right? Bull markets are born on
pessimism and grow on skepticism. So,
right now we're definitely in between
that pessimism and skepticism phase
and it's definitely not euphoric by any
means.
>> What's been euphoric, Mohit, has been
the rally in South Korea, MSCI choosing
not to open their review process that
could make it DM. It has concerns about
the onshore liquidity of Korea won,
whether that can support trades. What do
you make of that? Does the rally need
more of that confidence signaling from
the index compiler for things to go
further?
>> Yeah, Korea's story is different. This
is not just an MSCI classification
story.
It is also a fundamentals and earnings
re-rating story. So, the markets have
been supported by three factors,
governance reforms, the AI memory cycle,
and improving shareholder returns. So,
those are real drivers
and investors have domestic investors
have come back in full force. But having
said that, of course, you know, when a
market moves in such a parabolic way,
it's likely that they would give back
some of those gains and the froth will
need to be removed from that market. So,
we we also acknowledge the froth. So,
you can see the popularity obviously of
leverage ETFs and concentrated exposure
to the AI memory cycle. So, I think
there could be some pullback there, but
the long-term drivers for Korea remain
intact just again given the earnings
re-rating story in place.
>> Mohit, we got to leave it there. Thank
you, Mohit Mehrotra there, senior
partner at SGMC Capital. Coming up in
the next hour, we talk market strategy
with NF Trinity as stock stage at cost
just recovery from a global tech led
sell-off really sparked by fears about
this AI rally. We've got Helen Zhu
joining us at the next hour.
>> [music]
>> Another check of markets here. We're
tracking Gooming shares here up just
slightly here after they were planning a
convertible bond and a share buyback as
well. So, that is a good news when it
comes to investors. Luxshare also got
approval of a dual listing in Hong Kong
as well. Keep in mind Goldman Sachs also
recently just raised its earnings
estimates for the company really driven
by strong revenue they say and reflect
continued growth in the company's
components business. The stock though is
still lower by about 2% here today. Also
watching the biotech sort of sector here
Abbisko
announcing a partnership or teaming up
with Eli Lilly. So, continue to see a
bit more collaboration there when it
comes to research. We're also seeing
Abbisko up close to 5%. At the dashboard
looking like this here right now, we are
seeing a bit more recovery across
onshore and offshore markets here
[music] today. Hang Seng is up about
4/10 of 1%. You're watching the China
Show.
>> [music]
[music]
>> The Chinese economy overall domestically
will need to we need to see some more
growth drivers.
Overall confidence. I think the fact
that actually the equity market had
recovered somewhat last year is helpful.
>> We have a very large business in China,
a lot of really good connections with
customers over over many decades. And in
the in the second quarter we had a Lunar
New Year effect where business moved
out. What what I would say is the
business is really stable and in fact
some really bright spots [music] in the
business. Our biopharma business grew
double digit which is a continuing
improvement in the market and life
sciences and biopharma.
>> Some of our guests speaking at WEF
there, Bain Capital's Jonathan Drew and
Agilent CEO Padraig McDonald speaking to
us from of course Valium on business
sentiment in China. Sentiment across
when it comes to offshore markets so
looking a little bit better here today
although we did enter of course to into
that technical bear market when it comes
to eight shares. So we're flat on that
gauge here. Hang Seng
losing a little bit of steam when it
comes to this sort of bounce that we're
seeing across markets right now, April.
>> Yeah, losing altitude and if you look at
the rest of the region, I think it also
informs the tentative recovery that
we've been sort of seeing today. You
look at the Samsung stock, right? It's
also pulling back a little from the 10%
gain of earlier against the backdrop of
local media reports about that share
buyback plan. SK still doing well all
this ahead of Micron earnings. Maybe
part of the risk management exercise.
But look at how Taiwan is faring also
and extending those declines including
for TSMC. So I think there is a bit more
caution in the markets. KOSPI is the
standout and this is also worth noting
how MSCI in its review did not start the
process on maybe elevating it to develop
market status. So some concern still
there. Take a look as well at Indonesia.
That's the other market that we were
watching, the MSCI in terms of the
review process. Today, you are seeing
those gains 3/4 of a percent higher on
the stock benchmark. This is the first
time investors have to react to the MSCI
delaying the decision to November on
whether it will downgrade it to frontier
market status. It wants to see a bit
more of their implementation before it
actually makes a decision. Uh it's also
interesting cuz this bounce we're seeing
in Jakarta stocks is also coming against
the backdrop of relative strength in the
greenback. Overnight, it did hit the
highest level on BBDXY since November
last year. So, this is the setup that
we're coming into today. Yvonne?
>> Yeah, I think that's why we saw the PBOC
set that fixed weaker for a fourth
straight session, just reflecting that
overall strength in the greenback as
well. Uh let's talk a little bit more
about this this rebound that we're
seeing across tech here today. Of
course, we talked about Samsung really
leading that bounce back in Asia chip
stocks. Uh but price action is still
quite mixed across the region. Well,
let's bring in our markets reporter
Anthony Stevens. So, Korea day two, what
are you watching out for?
>> Yeah, I think what's interesting is the
US follow through from the Korea move.
Right, the US semi names trade a ton of
volume. Micron, for example, trades as
much as the entire Korea market put
together. So, it was quite meaningful
that the US follow through and we're
seeing some tentative signs of a bounce
driven by Samsung, but more broadly
speaking in Asian tech, there's still a
lot of weakness. That's in the context
of a very volatile tape. So, uh
volatility on the Kospi is now a 90
handle. That means it takes a 5 and 1/2%
move every day for that volatility to
realize. So, people are pricing in an
extreme amount of ongoing volatility in
the chip trade. That sets up very
sharply for the Micron earnings today.
Micron itself is expected to move around
10% on earnings day. So, you have a
really choppy back end of this week
coming in the Asian tech trade.
>> Yeah, it's choppy. I mean, obviously
Hong Kong's been quite choppy now that
we have entered into bear market
territory for HSCEI as well as MSCI
China here. We were just talking to a
guest on C from CICC. It's not just a
sentiment thing here. This really
reflects that K-shaped recovery that
we're seeing across this market here.
Why do you think it's it's
underperformed so much?
>> So the K-shaped of the Chinese economy
is
going into a K-shaped bifurcation in
markets as a whole and that's causing a
very powerful flow driver. So if you
think about how momentum has traded
versus quality globally, momentum has
really started to accelerate as the chip
tech trade has accelerated. So you've
seen that really big spread. Now Hong
Kong is very heavy on the quality names.
We have very strong quality earnings
drivers like Tencent or Alibaba, but the
market doesn't want these things. They
want high growth, high profitability,
high margin names like what you see in
Micron or Samsung or Hynix and it
continues to drive these HS tech names
lower. So we're seeing this spread
really blow out and in terms of China
macro, retail sales in China just have
not turned. They've been on a multi-year
downtrend and that is the fundamental
underpinning of the weakness in China.
Consumption is not turning and the tech
trade is just not exciting enough on a
macro level to turn that China around.
>> Anthony, what about momentum in the US
and how concerning that US tech sell-off
is? I mean, you alluded to this. What
was interesting was how the selling was
in Korea and then the ripple effects
went across the Pacific to the US.
>> Yeah, so that was kind of like a factor
signal into momentum as you said and
momentum had quite a sharp drop down
against quality overnight, but it's
still a huge leader on the year and it's
still the focus of both the retail and
institutional investors in the US. So
that's what makes Micron so important.
Micron has led the socks rally
significantly. It's up 250% plus this
year still after the after the drawdown
yesterday. And this stock, you know, the
earnings visibility is so strong that it
should be able to come within a whisper
of
the reported number. So, what they say
on capacity, what they say on guidance
will be really closely watched for the
entire US ecosystem. Now, on any metric,
US volatility is very low versus
historical standards given where the
market is. And the market is really not
positioned uh properly for a tech bubble
here. And that is the most concerning
thing for the back end of this week.
>> All right, Anthony. Thank you, Anthony
Stevens there, our Bloomberg markets
reporter, of course. Uh we're checking
some of these live pictures that are
coming through when it comes to Dalian
here. Right now, we're awaiting Chinese
Premier Li Qiang's speech at the World
Economic Forum there. Let's bring in our
China correspondent, Mimi Lo. She is, of
course, there on the ground for us. Uh
and as before, you know, before we bring
in and hear from the premier, Mimi, tell
us more about, you know, what are you
hearing on the ground and what's
expected from the premier's speech
today?
>> Yeah, I can tell you there is a lot of
anticipation for Premier Li's speech
because just more than an hour ago
before his speech already the queue was
forming behind me because it's first
come, first serve at that grand hall
there. A lot of people queuing up and
that tells you that the business
leaders, the government leaders here in
Dalian, they all want to hear what China
has to say. And why? Because people are
really concerned about the direction of
the Chinese economy, right? because last
week we got those economic data,
consumption contracting for the first
time in years. And these business
leaders, they want to know should they
be doubling down on their investments
here in China when the economy seems to
be chugging along quite slowly. Uh so,
we certainly will be watching for any
signs from Li Qiang about uh how much
fiscal stimulus the government might be
planning. What is his assessment of how
the Chinese economy is faring and where
are they satisfied with the way it's
going so far. He'll likely say a few
lines as well about opposing
unilateralism, about, you know, the
global fragmentation, and about how
China will continue to commit to opening
its doors wider and wider for these
foreign businesses as well.
>> Yeah, there are a couple of things,
right? Supply chains, trade friction,
AI, and to your point about the
rebalancing of the Chinese economy. Talk
to us about what else we've been hearing
so far with because we heard from the
PBOC advisor as well urging support for
consumption.
>> That's why the PBOC advisor I'll be
speaking to him later at the 11th hour
Hong Kong time. He has been warning
about this unbalanced growth in the
Chinese economy and the need to come up
with more measures to boost consumption.
And as you said, AI, tech, those have
been major themes at the World Economic
Forum here. I was moderating a
moderating a panel yesterday about
factories that learn and how do we scale
intelligent manufacturing now across
systems, across borders. That certainly
has been
another major theme as well. And there
are some political meetings at the
sidelines as well because Premier Li did
also meet with his South Korean
counterpart yesterday calling for
greater cooperation when it comes to
chips, AI, and the biotech sector.
Certainly seems to be some warming up of
relations between South Korea and China.
The two sides leaning
against each other for support amid this
global fragmentation and the disruptions
because of the Iran war. So, we'll we'll
certainly be looking out for all of
that. A green transition also a major
theme here. We just had CATL's chief
manufacturing officer on our show.
There's been a lot of new technology
being touted especially when it comes to
the shift to these sodium ion batteries
as opposed to lithium ion. A lot of
innovation happening in the battery
space right now.
>> Yeah, tell us a little more about that
because I think they actually came out
with some sort of report about these 10
emerging technologies
that is expected to shape, of course,
your world tech industry. What what more
can we learn, I guess,
about what these sort of new innovations
are?
>> Yes, a lot of these new innovations are
really centered on supply chain
resilience. So, yesterday, for example,
I spoke to the founder of Pure Lithium
and her entire business was all about
coming up with a new type of
game-changing technology that doesn't
require any part of raw materials from
China. So, obviously, this, you can
imagine there will be a lot of demand
from Western partners. They are looking
to reduce reliance on Chinese rare
earths at a time when you have the G7
nations and the US looking to come
together to really reduce their reliance
on Chinese materials, right? So,
green the green transition, the energy
shifting to these green energy biofuels,
those are also seeing a huge demand
right now partly because of how oil
prices had accelerated because of the
Iran war. So, things like
ethanol-related sort of products in the
the biotech sector, those are also
seeing a lot of investments from
companies abroad and in China. And
interestingly, many of these companies,
even as they look at
protecting their supply chain, many of
them are still looking at China as one
of the key hubs for their manufacturing
just because of the density of that
supply chain ecosystem within China, the
scale and the pace at which they can
build up manufacturing, and of course,
the cost of it as well. Many companies
I've spoken to are saying that they are
in China for China right now instead of
using China as a hub to export to the
rest of the world. They are in China for
China, but still they are using this as
a hub, as a test bed, and they are
taking the lessons they learn here and
replicating it elsewhere around the
world.
>> Right. And then as we wait to hear from
the premier, we are also seeing the
governor of Liaoning, I believe it is,
that's taken the stage. And of course,
this is a hub of sorts that seem to be
vital for the Chinese economy,
industrial manufacturing base. Uh talk
to us about how else China is looking to
capitalize as well on his manufacturing
strengths. And what are the signals that
we've been hearing so far from the
forum?
>> Yeah, so China has been uh you have
heard so far and we've seen the data
about how government investment um
fiscal spending has been contracting uh
for a while at least in the first part
of this year. But many uh economists are
expecting maybe that spending will ramp
up in the second half because earlier
this year at the two sessions, the
government has, for example, talked
about uh these six networks of
infrastructure that they want to beef up
across the country. These are things
like computing data centers across the
country, water networks, power grids,
the things that will power the next
generation of the internet of things.
So, there are pretty grand ambitions
when it comes to scaling up the
infrastructure to support the AI sector
and the tech sector. We have heard last
week at the Lujiazui Forum, for example,
the CSRC chair talking about loosening
the rules for the STAR Market to support
these pre-profit uh or less profitable
AI firms to list on the stock exchange.
So, making available these patient
capital for for companies. And we at the
same time, you bear in mind, we see the
credit impulse shifting downwards,
right? Credit growth has been very slow.
People are paying back their loans much
faster than they're taking out new
loans. And it looks like for these
companies, loans are not really the
biggest source of investment right now.
They're looking towards investors,
private capital, and and platforms like
the STAR Market to really get hold of
liquidity to boost the economy right
now.
>> All right. I'm Minalo. Thank you of
course the preview what to expect. I
believe we're expected to hear from the
premier. I think that is we'll see if
that is sort of his his entourage there
walking inside but certainly there's
going to be one thing to watch very
closely this hour. We'll bring you that
speech when it does come through when he
steps on stage but certainly
this is all coming on a backdrop of what
we're seeing across markets, right? This
K-shaped economy that you're seeing is
really being reflected across some of
the the markets that you're seeing,
right? With Chinese listed shares in
Hong Kong which have entered into a bear
market and the consumption side still
quite lagging and being an overhang on
on overall market sentiment and the like
here and this pivot to AI certainly uh
has been one of a narrow rally as well.
Uh we're going to leave those pictures
there. We'll bring you up to speed here
of course across markets and once you
know Li Qiang steps on stage here, we'll
take bring you straight back to that
speech in Dalian. This is Bloomberg.
>> It is a great honor to open this plenary
here in China, a country
with which the World Economic Forum
>> All right. Uh marking of course these
live pictures that is the World Economic
Forum CEO I believe that's speaking here
and expected to
uh start a short introduction and then
the premier Li Qiang is going to be
delivering uh his speech at the World
Economic Forum there. Joining us now uh
before that is of course Helen Q
managing partner and CIO at NF Trinity.
Uh we talk about just this
slowing trend that of of just
underperformance when it comes to
Chinese stocks, especially in Hong Kong.
Do you see any signs of of a change in
direction in this market now?
>> I think it's a bit difficult, right? I
mean, this has been a pretty difficult
year after a really spectacular year for
Chinese equities last year. Uh the RMB
has actually been appreciating which is
usually a positive for the market. But
what you see is, first of all, all the
money is going to AI trades and
AI-related market. So, Korea, Taiwan are
getting all the flow. So, it's not just
China, but India and ASEAN, they're all
out of favor. Secondly, the Chinese
economy has been, unfortunately, very
weak. Investment has been poor,
consumption has been lagging, and we
actually see exports as really the key
engine of growth. Thirdly, though, I
think exports is increasingly uncertain,
right? We talked about earlier how the
trade surplus has been expanding, and a
lot of other foreign countries, you
know, Europe, emerging Asia, etc.,
they're all starting to wonder what's
going to happen to their own
manufacturing base. So, I don't know if
there's going to be more policy risks on
that front. If that happens, I think
it's going to be a big blow to the
Chinese economy. So, I think with all
these uncertainties, people are still
somewhat on the sidelines, even though
the valuation has certainly settled down
to very reasonable levels across the
board.
>> In terms of stim- I mean,
the May data, when you saw you know,
retail sales in negative, right? It's
something that we've not haven't seen
since the days of the pandemic.
Are we expecting Are you expecting any
sort of stimulus on the consumption
side? Or at least demand side?
>> Everyone's been talking about
stimulating consumption for, you know, a
very, very long time. So, unfortunately,
it's pretty difficult, and you had all
of these consumption uh vouchers and
temporary stimulus, you know, for white
goods and so on, and maybe at some
points for auto, EV, etc. Some of that
stuff has actually shifted off, creating
a higher base, and that's part of the
reason why the year-on-year comps are
increasingly unfavorable. Um I think at
the end of the day, you really have to
get people to feel more positive about
the economy and more positive about
their net worth. So, the fact that the
property market and property prices have
somewhat stabilized, no big V-shaped
recovery, but stabilization, I think is
at least a positive. But now we have all
these like youth unemployment issues, as
well as AI disruption to people's, you
know, employment prospects, etc. So, I
think it's still a bit dicey, too early
to say that it's going to come back.
All right. I'll hold up our Helen.
Thanks for sticking around for us this
hour. It's going to be kind of quite
fluid here just given what we're
expected to hear from
of course down the end of the World
Economic Forum. That was of course the
WEF CEO that just finished his remarks
here and I think we are just moments
away from hearing Oh, there you go. The
cameras are coming up. There you go.
Premier League chairman there just
stepping on stage here. Let's listen in.
>> as of international organizations,
distinguished business leaders,
distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen,
good morning.
It is my great pleasure
to join you,
friends both old and new here in the
beautiful city of Dalian
for the annual meeting of the new
champions 2026.
On behalf of the Chinese government,
I wish to extend warm congratulations on
the opening of the meeting
and express
heartfelt thanks to you all
for your long-standing strong support
for China's economic development.
The theme of this year's meeting,
innovating at scale,
points to
a critical factor in global economic
development today.
As President Xi Jinping noted,
innovation drives development
and innovation shapes the future.
>> More chance in
just more weather.
Just a
>> All right, as you see we're dealing with
some technical gremlins here this
morning and we're dealing with the
translation with the premier, but
certainly he is delivering that keynote
speech at at Dalian here right now and
talking a little bit more about uh the
economy and the like. Um certainly Oh,
yeah, you continue to see if some
technical glitches there. So, we'll
continue to see what goes on uh here
right now. Um I believe we worked things
out. Let's take a listen.
>> Beginning of this year, there has been
increased volatility in the
international landscape as geopolitical
conflicts erupted one after another.
Global economic recovery, fragile as it
was,
has now come under greater strain.
Against this backdrop, China's economy
got off to a good start.
It withstood the challenges,
forged ahead, and demonstrated stronger
resilience and a promising outlook.
So, the overall performance
can be summarized in four keywords.
Keyword number one, stability.
China's economy grew by 5% in Q1
and has
maintained a sound momentum
in Q2.
We're seeing growth
in in corporate profits,
a moderate rebound in prices, and
continued improvement in people's
livelihood.
Stability may not seem much on an
ordinary day,
but
when China's economy
at a massive volume of 140
trillion RMB yuan continues to register
steady and healthy growth despite the
shocks of global energy shortages and
severe supply chain disruptions,
when it continues to bring much-needed
certainty to this increasingly uncertain
world
and plays a vital role as a safe harbor.
Such solid and robust stability
is all the more precious.
Key word number two,
innovation.
I bet you are all aware that after years
of endeavor and accumulation,
China
has become a hub of rapidly emerging new
technologies, new products, and new
business models.
In the first half of this year, multiple
types of commercial rockets have been
successfully launched and technologies
such as quantum information, integrated
circuits, and nuclear fusion have been
advancing at an accelerated pace. Most
notably, the AI sector has seen
explosive growth. Several major AI
models have reached new milestones in
performance.
And
our
daily token usage has hit
several hundred trillion.
by the end of May,
and that ranked first in the world.
And embodied intelligence
has moved into large-scale commercial
application.
With brilliant frontier innovations
quickly sparking off a sweeping
transformation of growth drivers,
China's economy has taken on a new look
and gained renewed energy.
Keyword number three, dynamism.
China's supersized market continues to
unleash demand potential,
especially in services, green, and new
types of consumption.
Tourism,
performing arts, and sports events
easily
draw large crowds,
with tickets often sold out in seconds.
Consumer favorites, such as
smartwatches, smart glasses, and other
smart devices have seen sales multiply.
In addition,
here in China, flows of people, goods,
information,
and capital are highly vibrant.
Over
million express deliveries are handled
per day.
That is more than the total of all other
countries combined.
All these are all vivid footnotes to the
surging vitality of China's economy.
They're also the true reflections of the
dynamism of the Chinese market.
And they embody the rich diversity and
high growth potential of China's
domestic demand.
Keyword number four, integration.
At a time of rising unilateralism and
protectionism,
China remains as committed as ever to
opening up further.
We have extended zero tariff
policies to 63 countries.
We stayed as the world's
second largest import market for 17
years running.
And in the first 5 months of this year,
we
recorded an import growth of 20.5%.
That's significantly higher than our
export growth.
Since last year, we
have also launched a number of export to
China promotional events
to make available more channels for
high-quality foreign products to enter
the Chinese market.
That has been well received by countries
around the world.
What I want to stress here is that
for China,
our integrated development with the
world has never been an expediency,
but a strategic decision
made
in line with the trend of history and
based on our own development philosophy.
In pursuing development, China does not
seek to move faster by going alone.
Rather, we want win-win cooperation with
all in the world so that we can go far
together.
These four keywords
stability, innovation, dynamism, and
integration
together present
a comprehensive outlook of China's
economy.
They sketch out both the current picture
and future trajectory.
We're confident and capable of
sustaining
and harnessing this strong momentum
so as to keep writing new chapters in
China's high-quality development.
That's my first thought.
My second thought is innovation-driven
development is the key to China's
long-term, steady, and sustained
economic success.
Over the years
China's economy has maintained steady
and healthy development.
And I think this can be attributed to
two critical factors, namely the stable
environment and the strength of
innovation.
The stable environment in China
I believe is widely recognized, and many
of you know this from personal
experience, so I will not elaborate
here.
As for the strength of innovation.
The visible outcomes and vibrant
activities tend to attract more
attention.
While the
strenuous efforts and long-time
dedication that contributed to the
successes in innovation are not always
fully appreciated.
So, in this connection, I wish to
underscore three key messages.
Message number one, China's innovation
has been forged through relentless
painstaking effort.
We are well aware that there are no
shortcuts in Sci-Tech research.
And no one can copy their way to an
innovation edge.
There has to be
solid
hard work to tackle tough challenges.
In recent years,
in order to achieve greater
self-reliance and strength in science
and technology, we have steadily
increased input into Sci-Tech research.
During the 14th Five-Year Plan period
from 2021 to 2025,
our total R&D expenditure grew by an
average of 10% annually,
making China the world's second largest
R&D spender.
Last year,
basic research accounted for more than
7% of total R&D expenditure,
setting a new record in history.
And
during this process, Chinese enterprises
have done an amazing job.
They have demonstrated unyielding
resilience and steadfast dedication.
Many industry leaders
have endured
operational pressures brought about by
prolonged and costly R&D commitments.
Some incurred heavy losses at certain
stages, and others faced unfair external
suppression.
Despite all this,
none of them ever
wavered in their commitment.
And
their perseverance
has finally paid off.
One typical example is Huawei.
The company has suffered financially
under technological blockade.
But, instead of cutting cost on R&D,
we've learned that Huawei invested over
1 trillion RMB yuan
in research
over a period of nearly 10 years.
And it is thanks to this substantial
input
into R&D
that Huawei achieved a host of
breakthroughs in hardcore technology.
This year marks the start of the 15th
5-year plan.
And during this period
that ends in 2030, we will further
strengthen
research on key technologies.
We will significantly raise the
proportion of basic research funding.
We will continuously enhance the
capacity for original innovation. All
this will provide an inexhaustible
source of energy for the innovation and
high-quality development of Chinese
economy. That's my first message that
China's innovation has been forged
through endless painstaking effort. And
my second message is that China's
innovation has been tempered through
extensive applications across multiple
industries.
Science and technology thrives in
application.
The most difficult leap in innovation is
often not the one inside the lab,
but the one across the Darwinian sea
that separates the lab from the market.
The key, therefore, lies in better
connecting science and technology with
industry.
After years of pursuing
innovation-driven development,
China has blazed a successful path
by which sci-tech innovation spearheads
industrial innovation,
and industrial upgrade propels sci-tech
evolution.
On the one hand, rapid sci-tech progress
is the wellspring of industrial
development.
In recent years,
we have made active explorations in
frontier and emerging sectors and
achieved a large volume of innovation
outcomes
that have given birth to many new
industries.
As you know, the vigorous growth of
China's new energy and
intelligence-connected
vehicle industries, for example,
has been enabled
by our sci-tech breakthroughs in new
materials, power batteries, and
communications technology. These
innovations,
not
government subsidies, as some have
speculated, are the core competitiveness
of Chinese products.
We don't have enough money to do all the
subsidies,
to be very frank.
It's mainly because of the
big market
for these new products.
And our development
in science and technology has been the
wellspring of industrial development, as
I have stressed.
And on the other hand,
China's massive application scenarios
provide a powerful incubator and
training ground for new technologies.
China has a complete industrial system
and a big market.
So,
a promising sci-tech outcome, backed by
China's manufacturing strength, can be
rapidly turned into real-world consumer
goods.
Likewise,
a niche product placed in a market of
1.4 billion consumers has the potential
to grow into a sizable business and even
a big industry.
Last
evening,
I knew from the news that the
China Supply Chain Expo,
China International Supply Chain Expo,
and one
exhibitor said to
the press during an interview that
he said in
his country,
the period from
invention to real-world application
would take one whole year.
But in Shenzhen, it took only 1 week
to turn from that blueprint into
real-world products, but he may be just
polite because he was in China.
But to be frank, our strong
manufacturing industry,
as well as strong and complete
industrial system,
can turn
even a very
niche product into real-world products.
That is our strength.
So, with broad participation across all
sectors,
with frequent feedback from countless
users, and with repeated
refinement across diverse scenarios, all
the new technologies have been able to
evolve and upgrade continuously through
large-scale applications. Going forward,
we will promote deeper integration
between Sci-Tech innovation and industry
innovation. We will expand effective
domestic demand. We will accelerate the
large-scale application of new
technologies and products.
And we will strengthen the mutually
reinforcing cycle of Sci-Tech advances
and industrial development.
That's my second message.
>> My third message is that China's
innovation has been nurtured in enabling
environment.
Innovation today,
as you know,
is highly complex and systemic,
requiring larger-scale resources input,
stronger
supporting measures,
and a more enabling institutional
environment.
For years, China has worked hard to
enhance its systemic innovation capacity
and achieved remarkable results.
We have been increasing support in
resources and factors production,
putting in place a diversified
investment system with enterprises
leading the way, government providing
guidance, and society participating.
Now, R&D investment by enterprises has
accounted for
nearly 80% of China's total R&D
spending.
So, our enterprises are really
incredible and forward-looking.
And we have been building a batch of
major Sci-Tech research facilities and
infrastructure.
And
training some 7 million university
graduates in science, engineering,
agriculture, and medicine every year.
We have prioritized building innovation
platforms.
Of the world's top 100 innovation
clusters, 24 are in China.
Topping the global innovation index
ranking for three consecutive years.
Professional, differentiated,
and specialized industrial clusters
spread across the country.
From the 1-hour electronic information
innovation circle in the Yangtze River
Delta,
the 1-hour motorcycle industrial circle
in Chongqing,
to the 30-minute
supporting circle in Shenzhen's Robot
Valley.
These platforms have incubated a large
number of high-tech enterprises, as well
as little giants that use specialized
and sophisticated technologies to
produce novel and unique products.
Moreover, we have deepened reforms of
systems and institutions, introducing a
series new policies and new measures in
intellectual property rights protection,
risk sharing, innovation incentives, and
other areas.
Going forward, we will continue to
improve the innovation ecosystem and
speed up the development of
infrastructure, including new-type power
grids, computing power networks, and new
generation telecommunication networks.
So [snorts] as to
effectively remove barriers to better
resource allocation
and keep unlocking and unleashing the
innovation dynamism of the whole
society.
China's rapidly growing innovation
capacity
has been
widely
welcomed and recognized by most in the
world.
Some, however,
respond differently.
They
are anxious
about China's Sci-Tech and industrial
innovation.
And
for various reasons, even come with
some
unfriendly narratives.
For instance,
the so-called China shock 2.0, as
reported by some media outlets.
They claim China's development is a
shock to the world.
But, as I have noticed,
in the recent discussions about this
narrative by some institutions and media
outlets,
there are more mentioning of an opposite
term.
That is, China opportunity 2.0, not
China shock 2.0.
They believe China's development
provides opportunities for the world.
In the past,
China's
big market
and low-cost production factors
had provided market dividends for the
world.
Today,
while
continuing to provide even greater
market dividends,
China is also
offering
more and more
innovation dividends with its
technological progress and industrial
upgrading.
What these combined dividends
generate for the world
are greater opportunities
and potential of development.
For enterprises around the world, China
Opportunity 2.0 means across-the-board
innovation empowerment and high-return
investment opportunities.
As we have seen, a growing number of
foreign enterprises have come to China
to set up research centers and regional
headquarters
and become deeply integrated into
China's innovation and industrial
chains.
This is a clear shift from made in China
to created in China.
In 2025,
14,000
foreign-funded enterprises were
established in the fields of scientific
research and technological services,
up by 27.2%
year-on-year.
Here in China,
enterprises from various countries can
quickly find
whole-process partners from R&D to
prototyping and to mass production,
making innovation easier and more
efficient.
This not only helps companies succeed in
the Chinese market,
but also boosts their global
competitiveness.
At the same time,
fast-growing Chinese innovative
enterprises can also generate
returns for investors across the world
that could be several or even dozens
times the original capital.
And this reminds me of my hometown,
Hangzhou.
There is a very popular company,
Unitree.
And we can see the performance of the
robots.
>> [snorts]
>> 10 years ago,
more than 10 years ago,
when I was the governor of Zhejiang
province,
Unitree was still a small company.
When I left Zhejiang in 2016,
the company was only valued at just over
10 million RMB yuan.
But now,
the company
is worth 42 billion yuan.
Several
thousand times increase in just 10
years' time.
The number of Chinese enterprises with
such potential
is still growing, not just Unitree.
Recent months have seen faster flow of
global capital into China's technology
assets.
For global development,
China opportunity 2.0
means more accessible, advanced
technologies
and
widely shared outcomes.
China is committed to an open approach
to innovation.
Much of its innovation
is open source.
This enables more countries,
particularly developing countries, to
access affordable new technologies and
new products.
Which has In
>> are listening to the premiere of China
Li Qiang there making that speech at the
World Economic Forum in Dalian. And what
we've been hearing so far from the
premiere himself is talking about
expanding this domestic demand and speed
up tech applications given of course
we've been talking about this sort of
K-shaped recovery that we've seen across
economies like China as well. Also want
to speed the telecoms network
infrastructure building and they want to
eliminate barriers when it comes to
resource allocation. Then he started
kind of pivoting more towards the tech
side of things and really talking a
little more about the innovation that
he's been seeing in the country here. He
wants to provide more opportunities in
tech for foreign firms. Also talking
about when it comes to made in China,
this sort of narrative is now shifting
to created in China here right now. So
that's sort of a snapshot we've been
hearing from the premiere so far. I want
to get some final remarks from Helen
Zhu. She's been standing by and being so
gracious. from NF Trinity.
Anything that's that stuck for you here
on the speech or anything about, you
know, whether it's the AI pure plays in
China or with the AI trade overall. How
are how are you looking at things on
that front now?
>> Well, I think for AI in China and
technology development, it's obviously
been a very high priority for the
government for a very long time and some
of the fruits of that have been, you
know, coming through, right? So China
has a very vibrant ecosystem and I think
even being decoupled from the US, it's
still going to be able to produce a lot
of really great products and services.
But that said, it's going to be totally
separate from the US. So it's own
ecosystem, it's own investment
opportunities and there's not too many
names in that space that are investable.
So the ones that are investable are
getting a lot of attention and flow. So
it's different from what we talked about
earlier, which is the Hong Kong market
overall or China market overall has been
depressed. The AI specific few names
have been on fire.
That said, you know, just like in the
US, you have a lot of like unlockings
coming up and I do think that will
potentially pressure the market and
potentially get some of the retail
frenzy and excitement, you know, to
dampen a little bit.
>> You talked about crowded crowded trades.
I mean, we're seeing that across North
Asia and the like. I mean, we were just
talking about in the break here about
the macro risks out there, right? Is the
oil price still going to be the key
indicator on whether we see more
rotation beyond just the tech
>> I think the upward pressure on oil
because of the war this year has been a
key contributor to the fact that, you
know, the market's been so concentrated,
right? Everybody's worried about all the
rate sensitive. They're worried about
the property market not coming back,
infrastructure, cyclicals, etc. Because
of the funding cost is quite high and
that's been totally unexpected this
year. AI on the other hand, you think
the demand is quite robust, right? Even
though the supply of compute is still a
question mark, but so far it's hanging
there hanging in there okay. So, I think
if the oil price is able to come down as
a result of this deal sticking and
hopefully a lot of the production, um,
you know, resuming and Hormuz opening,
but also more importantly structurally
speaking, Iran sanctions lifting in
combination with Venezuela supply coming
up, in combination with UAE leaving
OPEC, these three things are not
temporary. These things are structural
and permanent. If these things that
weren't around six months ago or eight
months ago actually stick, I think it's
possible that we could get a much bigger
reset in terms of oil prices versus what
people are expecting. And if that
happens, then rates come down a bit,
inflation expectations go away. All
these rate hikes that are priced in
right now for the rest of this year and
into next year may, you know, dissipate
to some extent and I think that could
actually potentially propel a rotation
away from the AI trade into other
aspects of the market. That would be
super healthy in terms of, you know,
just having a little bit of breath
returning to the market.
>> So, does that mean, Helen, at some point
we see a bit of a stumble for AI
hardware, particularly these Chinese
names that we are hearing, you know,
these overtures? They seem to be the
priority. Build domestically,
prioritize some of the local names.
>> And only through a stronger cooperation.
>> I think
there is a difference between the
fundamental and then the actual market
performance. So, I think the fundamental
and demand picture for AI for you know,
picks and shovels whether in China or in
the US are very very healthy. I think
the risk on the fundamental side is
really the supply and whether there are
one or two components just are not
available and that in turn slows down
the capex cycle for everybody as a
whole, right? So, you already see that
pressure moving from GPU and energy into
other parts of the supply chain. So, you
know, CPUs in shortage now and PCBs in
shortage and everything else that you
can talk about beyond just initially the
memory and the GPU. So,
I think that's the thing to watch for.
But from a market perspective, the
positioning is very full, very
concentrated. There's a lot of leverage
ETFs in the market. There's a lot of
you know, retail participation that's
quite extreme versus history. So, that's
what we have to be careful about. The
technicals could unravel at any moment
and that would potentially put downward
pressure not only on the AI trade but on
the markets as a whole.
>> Helen, it's great to have you. Thanks
for sticking around. Helen Zhu, managing
partner and CIO at NF Trinity and just
as she was alluding to that retail
investment space has really been
dragging what we're seeing on the Kospi.
I mean, how crowded is that trade and we
saw how after session highs with the
Kospi pretty much losing velocity. What
is interesting is how this coincided
with the rally we were seeing in Chinese
chip making related stocks the likes of
HuaHong Grace Semiconductor actually
hitting those session highs as Li Qiang
spoke. So, tech is certainly front and
center on a day [music] like today.
We'll continue tracking how AI and chip
stocks react. That's it for the China
show. Inside with Haslinda Amin is next.
Keep it here with us. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
>> The best choice that benefit people
across countries
rather than sources chaos [music] that
undermine peace and stability.
This calls for better coordination